= bio-lazyblastxml

Provides a libxml-based lazy parser for reading through large blast xml files with a small memory footprint.

== Requirements

* Ruby 1.9.x
* libxml

If you're on ubuntu, libxml is most easily installed with:

  sudo apt-get install libxml-ruby

== Overview

The parsers uses a LibXML::Reader instance to read the XML file one line at a time, keeping very little in memory. You can think of the parser as having a very short memory, only able to recall the object that it happens to be looking at right now. The parser only runs through the document once unless Bio::LazyBlast#rewind is called.

== Example Usage


  require 'bio-lazyblastxml'
  
  # Generate your new report object
  report = Bio::LazyBlast::Report.new('my_huge_blastfile.xml')
  
  # How many hits does each query have?
  report.each_iteration do |iteration|
    puts [iteration.query_def, iteration.count].join("\t")
  end


  require 'bio-lazyblastxml'
  
  # Generate your new report object
  report = Bio::LazyBlast::Report.new('my_huge_blastfile.xml')
  
  report.each_iteration do |iteration|
    iteration.each_hit do |hit|
      # Sum up the lengths of all the hsps
      hsp_length_sum = hit.inject(0){|count,hsp| count += hsp.align_len}
      puts [iteration.query_def, hit.definition, hsp_length_sum].join("\t")
    end
  end



== Contributing to bio-lazyblastxml
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 robsyme. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

